1                                                                                    
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                        CRIME AND MENTAL DISORDER, 1972                              
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                 (ICPSR 9088)                                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                            Principal Investigator                                   
                                                                                     
                                  Dean Harper                                        
                            University of Rochester                                  
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                              First ICPSR Edition                                    
                                     1989                                            
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                        Inter-university Consortium for                              
                         Political and Social Research                               
                                 P.O. Box 1248                                       
                           Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106                                 
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
          (Hard copy documentation transformed into machine-readable                 
         text utilizing Optical Character Recognition (OCR) Scanning,                
                                 December 1992                                       
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                             BIBLIOGRAPHIC CITATION                                  
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
            Publications  based  on  ICPSR  data  collections  should                
            acknowledge  those  sources  by  means  of  bibliographic                
            citations.  To ensure that such source  attributions  are                
            captured  for  social  science  bibliographic  utilities,                
            citations must appear in footnotes or  in  the  reference                
            section  of publications.  The bibliographic citation for                
            this data collection is:                                                 
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                 STUDYNO = 09088 Harper, Dean. CRIME AND  MENTAL                     
                 DISORDER,  1972 [computer file]. Rochester, NY:                     
                 Dean   Harper,    University    of    Rochester                     
                 [producer],   1985.   Ann   Arbor,  MI:  Inter-                     
                 university Consortium for Political and  Social                     
                 Research [distributor], 1989.                                       
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                REQUEST FOR INFORMATION ON USE OF ICPSR RESOURCES                    
                                                                                     
            To provide funding agencies  with  essential  information                
            about  use  of  archival  resources and to facilitate the                
            exchange  of  information   about   ICPSR   participants'                
            research activities, users of ICPSR data are requested to                
            send to ICPSR bibliographic citations for each  completed                
            manuscript or thesis abstract. Please indicate in a cover                
            letter which data were used.                                             
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                 DATA DISCLAIMER                                     
                                                                                     
            The original  collector  of  the  data,  ICPSR,  and  the                
            relevant  funding  agency bear no responsibility for uses                
            of this collection or for interpretations  or  inferences                
            based upon such uses.                                                    
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
                          TABLE OF CONTENTS                                          
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                        Page no.                     
                                                                                     
 Collection of the Data                                    2                         
                                                                                     
 Comments on Psychiatric Data                              7                         
                                                                                     
 Codebook                                                  9                         
                                                                                     
 Criminal Offenses For Which Individuals Were Sentenced   15                         
                                                                                     
 Codes for Diagnosis                                      17                         
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 Page 2                                            ICPSR 9088                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                        COLLECTION OF THE DATA                                       
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
      Some History of the Data. In 1978, several of us devised a project to          
 examine mental disorder among a set of prisoners in the County Jail.  A             
 graduate student was assigned to the task of collecting the data. Once              
 collected, however,it was not analyzed because we had become involved in other      
 projects.In the fall of 1984, I decided to analyze these data, which consisted      
 of information on 621 prisoners, 186 of whom it appeared had had contacts with      
 psychiatric facilities; to do this, I obtained a small grant from the National      
 Institute of Justice for work on it during the summer of 1985. After carrying       
 out some analysis, I became distracted by some anomalies and puzzles in the         
 data,so I went back and examined the collection procedures, and concluded that      
 the data were incomplete.For presentation at the November 1985 meetings of the      
 American Society of Criminology, I attempted to obtain a complete and accurate      
 set of data.  However, at that time I still felt some disquiet about the data.      
 Hence, following the meetings, I returned to redo some of the data collection       
 and analysis procedures, which will be described below. At this time, I am          
 confident that the data are as complete and as accurate as anyone can make          
 them. As will be seen, the numbers Vary from those cited above in this              
 paragraph and from those reported at the November meetings.                         
                                                                                     
      The Sources of the Data. The data came from two sources: (1) the _______       
 County Jail and (2) the Psychiatric Register. From the records of the________       
 County Jail, a list of the names of all individuals serving time in the jail        
 during the year 1972 was obtained. This list consisted of a photocopy of the        
 jail log-specifically 17 hand-written pages which listed, in order of date of       
 admission, those sentenced to the jail. The year 1972 was selected because we       
 wanted to determine psychiatric contacts after the period in jail, as well as       
 before. With this list of names, the graduate student searched the prisoners'       
 files maintained by the jail probation officers; from these files, additional       
 information was extracted, viz., race, birth date, marital status, education,       
 occupation, past criminal offenses, and criminal offenses in 1972. For some         
 prisoners, there were no files. ("They are in someone's office" was the             
 explanation). And for some prisoners, the files were incomplete. (Clearly, the      
 probation officers, frequently harried and always overworked,did not have time      
 to always carefully collect this information). However, the information that        
 was available was recorded and coded. It should be noted that most of the           
 information, in particular name and criminal offense, is public and available       
 to anyone who wants to spend time in the courts.                                    
                                                                                     
     Additional data were obtained from the _______ county Psychiatric Case          
 Register. The Case Register is a collection of data on nearly all individuals       
 who were seen by psychiatrists in ______ County from January 1,1960 to 1977.        
 when it ceased to operate because of lack of funds for its continuation. The        
 register consisted of two files --a name file and a contact file; each will be      
 described below.                                                                    
                                                                                     
     Those who provided treatment to the patients supplied information to the        
 Register by filling out a brief form for each patient.This form inquired about      
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 ICPSR 9088                                            Page 3                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
 sex, race, age, address, diagnosis, treatment, date of treatment (or of             
 discharge), and reason for discharge. The information was provided by private       
 psychiatrists, as well as by staff of hospitals and outpatient clinics. In the      
 early years,there was cooperation from all psychiatrists in the county, but as      
 the years progressed,some of the psychiatrists became less consistent in their      
 reporting.                                                                          
                                                                                     
      Once the form came to the Case Register staff, it was "processed" and key      
 punched. Processing consisted of determining if the patient had been seen           
 before by the same or a different psychiatrist or facility. If the patient had      
 never been seen before, then a new identification number was assigned and           
 coding and key punching was done; in this case, three records were created --       
 the first contained register ID, name and address. The second (called the           
 master record) contained Register ID, birth date, race and sex; the third           
 (called the contact record) contained address at the time of contact (coded         
 into census tract and not street address), facility of treatment, date of           
 treatment, diagnosis, and treatment. When the patient was discharged from           
 treatment another form was sent, which led to an updating of the contact            
 record. If the patient had been seen before (as indicated by comparing name,        
 birth date, and address with those in the name file), the old Register              
 identification number was assigned, the other data were coded, and it all was       
 keypunched; now only one record, a contact record, was created.                     
                                                                                     
      Then, the Case Register was periodically updated. For an old patient, the      
 information from each form (considered a record)was appended at the end of the      
 last contact record for that patient. For a new patient, the name record was        
 appended to the end of the name file and the master record and contact record       
 or records were appended to the end of the contact file.                            
                                                                                     
      When the Register ceased operation information had been collected on           
 111,828 patients over an 18-year period. There were 303,850 contact records in      
 the contact file. Thus, these patients had an average of 2.72 contacts.             
                                                                                     
     Above, it was said that almost all of those receiving psychiatric care in       
 _______ County were in the Psychiatric Register. By "almost all" is meant that      
 the rigors of collecting such a large mass of data probably resulted in some        
 errors; one kind of error was the failure of people supplying the information       
 to supply it for some patients. And, of course, there were other errors -- the      
 wrong information was supplied by those providing treatment, Register staff         
 made errors in coding or key punching the data, and so on.                          
                                                                                     
      It should be pointed out that the psychiatric data are confidential.  The      
 Case Register was devised for research purposes - some of that research being       
 applied and directed to the question of how to better organize psychiatric          
 care. Being maintained on two computer tapes, one tape containing name and          
 address and the other tape containing the contact data, the Case Register is        
 kept in a locked cabinet in order to preserve its confidentiality.                  
                                                                                     
     The Register can be compared with the patient files maintained by medical       
 facilities and by private practitioners. For example, hospitals maintain            
 handwritten and typed notes on patients, which are collected into one or more       
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 Page 4                                            ICPSR 9088                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
 file folders. These are available to medical staff for facilitating treatment       
 and, in many hospitals, are used by physicians and others for research. These       
 files frequently contain rich, detailed and impressionistic data on patients.       
 In this respect, they differ from the Case Register, which contains only the        
 briefest of data but does so systematically. On the other hand, hospital files      
 contain information collected on the patient while in that hospital and has no      
 data on (or only passing reference to) treatment in other facilities.  In this      
 respect, the Case Register differs, in that treatments at different facilities      
 are linked. Finally, the Case Register, unlike hospital files, is not used for      
 treatment purposes. Because of this, the Case Register is and has been              
 available for use only by those investigators associated with the Departmentof      
 Psychiatry of the _______________________ Medical School. As such, the              
 confidentiality of the data have been maintained completely, which again is         
 different from hospital files where personnel occasionally may gain access to       
 information on patients when they have no right to it.                              
                                                                                     
      This research did not use all of the register data - other than to report      
 some extant results from other analyses. Rather, I collected the psychiatric        
 data from the Register for those prisoners sentenced to the jail in 1972, who       
 had psychiatric contacts as indicated by being in the Case Register.                
                                                                                     
      This was done by a computer matching of the names of the prisonersagainst      
 those in the Register. If an individual in the list of prisoners had a name,        
 race, sex, and birthday identical to an individual in the Case Register, the        
 two individuals were considered identical and the computer program copied the       
 Register ID to disk. If some of the information was identical, but not all of       
 it, then the information from the Register and from the prisoner file was           
 listed and the investigator (in the first instance a research assistant and in      
 the last instance myself) examined it and made a decision. If, for example,         
 everything was identical except the birth year and the name was not a common        
 one (such as "John Smith"),then the two were considered to be identical. Where      
 there was some doubt, then the decision was to consider them different. For         
 this research,it was considered better to miss some who were identical than to      
 consider some identical who may not have been.                                      
                                                                                     
      Then, the list of Register ID's, appended to the prisoner data and from        
 which the prisoner's name had been removed, was -matched- to the contact file.      
 For each prisoner with a Register ID, psychiatric data from the Case Register       
 was appended to the jail data.The data were structured, then, in the following      
 way:                                                                                
                                                                                     
                Record 1 of jail data for prisoner 1                                 
                                                                                     
                Record 2 of jail data for prisoner 1                                 
                                                                                     
                Record 1 of jail data for prisoner 2                                 
                                                                                     
                Record 2 of jail data for prisoner 2                                 
                                                                                     
                Information from first contact record for prisoner 2                 
                                  .                                                  
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 ICPSR 9088                                            Page 5                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                  .                                                  
                                  .                                                  
                                                                                     
                Information from last contact record for prisoner 2                  
                                                                                     
                Record 1 of jail data for prisoner 3                                 
                                  .                                                  
                                  .                                                  
                                  .                                                  
                               etc.                                                  
                                                                                     
 Thus, prisoner 1 had no psychiatric contacts whereas prisoner 2 did have.  At       
 the same time this was done, a new identification number was appended and the       
 old identification numbers were deleted; the new ID number was randomly             
 determined.                                                                         
                                                                                     
      In addition, a control group of psychiatric patients was selected.  This       
 consisted of a set of individuals who were matched to those prisoners who had       
 psychiatric contacts. Specifically, for each such prisoner, the Register was        
 searched for all individuals who were identical to the prisoner in respect to       
 sex, race, year of first contact, census tract of first contact, and had a          
 birth year within five years of the prisoner's.  Where there was more than one      
 match, then one such match was randomly selected. If there was no match, then       
 the birth year was expanded to "within 8 years", the year of first contact was      
 broadened to include the previous year and the following year, and the census       
 tract was broadened to include a census tract of similar socio-economic             
 characteristics, in that order. This, then, yielded a control group of              
 psychiatric patients who had not served time in the _______ County Jail in the      
 target year. Data for the control group were identical in nature to the data        
 for the prisoner group, except that there were no jail data.                        
                                                                                     
     These were the data-collection procedures that were initially followed;         
 in the subsequent work, described below, the same general procedures were           
 followed.                                                                           
                                                                                     
     "Re-collection" of the Data. As I indicated earlier, a research assistant       
 attached to Case Register Research projects did the initial data collection,        
 viz., going through jail records, collecting Jail data, conducting the name         
 match and creating the control group. This resulted in 621 prisoners, of which      
 186 had had psychiatric contacts, and it was this data that I began to analyze      
 in the summer of 1985. I conducted various analyses, but towards the end of         
 this work, I became uncomfortable with the data, so I went back and studied         
 what records remained from the work done by the research assistant; this left       
 me with the conclusion that I should (1) examine the original list of names         
 again to see if any prisoners who appeared to be different individuals were in      
 fact the same, and (2) conduct the name match again with the Register.              
                                                                                     
     Not all of the names on the original list -- a photocopy of a handwritten       
 log -- were immediately decipherable. Some individuals were sentenced at            
 different times during the year, for different crimes or for a repeat of the        
 same crime. The second entry in the log might appear to be a different              
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 Page 6                                            ICPSR 9088                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
 individual because the first name was different in the first entry (e.g.,           
 "Jimmy') than in the second entry (e.g., "James").This would become evident if      
 there was one file in the jail records for James X which listed the twoarrests      
 or there were two files - one for Jimmy X and the other for James X. Likewise,      
 there might be variants in the spelling of the last name, e.g., -Dean Harpur-       
 in one entry and -Dean Harper- in another. One cannot necessarily conclude          
 these are the same individuals; thus, some careful and thoughtful examination       
 of these records was necessary. (For the November meetings, I concluded that        
 624 individuals had served time during 1972,but in a subsequent re-examination      
 I concluded that the number was in fact 617.)At the same time that I corrected      
 the list of names I also corrected the data on race, sex, crimes, and past          
 arrests.                                                                            
                                                                                     
     Having reassessed the original list of names and concluding that further        
 examination of the information available to me would not increase myconfidence      
 in the accuracy of the list of individuals serving time,I then conducted again      
 the second step, i.e., name matching the revised prisoner list with the             
 Psychiatric Case Register. (This resulted in the addition of several names and      
 the deletion of several others, but increased the total of such prisoners from      
 385 -- the number reported in November -- to 386).                                  
                                                                                     
     A later appendix contains the code book for these data and a listing of         
 a portion of the data.                                                              
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 ICPSR 9088                                            Page 7                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                     COMMENTS ON PSYCHIATRIC DATA                                    
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
      Diagnosis. Over time the medical profession develops and changes a             
 nosology -- a classification of distinct diseases. This also is done in             
 psychiatry. In 1952 in the United States the American Psychiatric Association       
 created the first Diagnostic and Statistic Manual of Mental Disorders, which        
 was referred to as DSM-I. A revised version, DSM-II, was put into use in 1968,      
 and a third version in 1980. The diagnoses used in the Psychiatric Register,        
 and which enter into the analyses done here, were based on DSM-I during the         
 first nine years of the Register (1960-1968) and on DSM-II thereafter               
 (1969-1977).                                                                        
                                                                                     
      These diagnostic categories are listed in a later appendix. Among these        
 are some disorders that, to the non-professional, would not appear to be            
 psychiatric disorders, but rather bad habits and obnoxious or defective             
 character traits. These are the diagnoses of "drug abuse", "personality             
 disorder" and "transient disorder".                                                 
                                                                                     
      In respect to "drug abuse", DSM-II contained a series of specific              
 diagnoses ranging from psychotic organic brain syndromes (e.g., delirium            
 tremens, Korsakov's psychosis, alcoholic deterioration) to non-psychotic            
 organic brain syndromes (e.g., drunkenness) to alcoholic personality disorders      
 (e.g., alcohol addiction, episodic excessive drinking).  In addition, DSM-II        
 contains a series of categories, generally referred to as drug dependence, but      
 where each category refers to addiction to a particular drug (e.g., opium,          
 barbiturates, and so on). All of these specific diagnoses are part of the           
 general category of "drug abuse" which is used in this report.                      
                                                                                     
     By "personality disorders" is meant those disorders "characterized by           
 deeply ingrained maladaptive patterns of behavior that are perceptibly              
 different in quality from psychotic and neurotic symptoms", (p. 41, DSM- II).       
 These include, for example, paranoid personality ("characterized by                 
 hypersensitivity, rigidity, unwarranted suspicion, jealousy, envy, excessive        
 self importance and a tendency to blame others and ascribe evil motives to          
 them", - p. 42, DSM-II), explosive personality ("characterized by gross             
 outbursts of rage or verbal or physical aggressiveness", p. 42, DSM-II).  What      
 is significant about personality disorders is that (1) they interfere with the      
 individual's ability to function successfully in everyday life - making it          
 difficult to establish satisfactory relations with others, to keep a job, to        
 work toward a goal and the like, and (2) some kind of therapeutic intervention      
 may reduce the noxious effects of this disorder.                                    
                                                                                     
     In DSM-II "transient disorders" are referred to as "transient situational       
 disturbances" and are defined as "more or less transient disorders of any           
 severity (including those of psychotic proportions) that occur in individuals       
 without any apparent underlying mental disorders and that represent an acute        
 reaction to overwhelming environmental distress", p. 48, DSM-II). Thus, they        
 are disorders but not mental disorders. What this suggests is that there is a       
 segment of the population that responds to stress by sometimes seeing a             
 psychiatrist and by sometimes doing something that results in a jail sentence.      
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 Page 8                                            ICPSR 9088                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
      In some instances no diagnosis was reported by the facility or                 
 psychiatrist.  In those instances, the diagnosis was deferred -- the                
 psychiatrist indicating that more time or information was needed before a           
 diagnosis could be made. On these occasions, however, the psychiatrist              
 submitted a report to the Register.                                                 
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 ICPSR 9088                                            Page 9                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                               CODEBOOK                                              
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
 For each prisoner there are at least two records. For each prisoner who was in      
 the psychiatric register there are one or more additional records.  For each        
 individual in the control group there are at least three records;the first two      
 records parallel the first two records of the data for prisoners, while             
 subsequent records contain psychiatric data.                                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
  RECORD 1                                                                           
                                                                                     
      Column  1-4    - Identification Number                                         
                                                                                     
      Column  5-7    - Record Identification Number                                  
                                                                                     
                       "991" - signifies the first record                            
                                                                                     
      Column  8      - Sex                                                           
                                                                                     
                       8/1 - male                                                    
                                                                                     
                       8/2 - female                                                  
                                                                                     
      Column  9-10   - Year of Birth                                                 
                                                                                     
                       e.g. "36" means year of birth was 1936                        
                                                                                     
      Column 11      - Race                                                          
                                                                                     
                       11/0 - no information                                         
                                                                                     
                       11/1 - white                                                  
                                                                                     
                       11/2 - black                                                  
                                                                                     
      Column 12-13   - Education - number of years                                   
                                                                                     
                       e.g. "10" means 10 years of education                         
                                                                                     
      Column 14      - Marital Statue                                                
                                                                                     
                       14/0 - no information                                         
                                                                                     
                       14/1 - single                                                 
                                                                                     
                       14/2 - married                                                
                                                                                     
                       14/3 - separated                                              
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 Page 10                                           ICPSR 9088                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                       14/4 - divorced                                               
                                                                                     
                       14/5 - widowed                                                
                                                                                     
                       14/6 - common law marriage                                    
                                                                                     
      Column 15-16   - Number  of Children                                           
                                                                                     
                       "00" - none or no information                                 
                                                                                     
                       "01" - one child                                              
                                                                                     
                            etc.                                                     
                                                                                     
      Column 17-18   - Occupation                                                    
                                                                                     
                       "00" - no information                                         
                                                                                     
                       "01" - unskilled                                              
                                                                                     
                       "02" - skilled                                                
                                                                                     
                       "03" - white collar                                           
                                                                                     
                       "04" - military                                               
                                                                                     
                       "05" - professional                                           
                                                                                     
                       "06" - student                                                
                                                                                     
      Column 19-20   - Number  of 1972 arrests                                       
                                                                                     
      Column 21-23   - Total Number of Days Sentenced to Jail                        
                                                                                     
      Column 24-25   - Crime for Which the Prisoner Was Sentenced                    
                       (See Appendix for a list of the crimes and their              
                       codes)                                                        
                       If any individual was sentenced more than once, each          
                       subsequent sentence is coded in the next two columns.         
                                                                                     
      Column 26-27   - Second Sentence                                               
                                                                                     
      Column 28-29   - Third Sentence                                                
                                                                                     
      Column 30-31   - Fourth Sentence                                               
                                                                                     
      Column 32-33   - Fifth Sentence                                                
                                                                                     
      Column 34-35   - Sixth Sentence                                                
                                                                                     
      Column 36-37   - Seventh Sentence                                              
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 ICPSR 9088                                           Page 11                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
      Column 38-39   - Eighth Sentence                                               
                                                                                     
      Column 40-41   - Ninth Sentence                                                
                                                                                     
      Column 42-43   - Tenth Sentence                                                
                                                                                     
      Column 44-45   - Eleventh Sentence                                             
                                                                                     
      Column 46-47   - Twelfth Sentence                                              
                                                                                     
      Column 48-49   - Thirteenth Sentence                                           
                                                                                     
      Column 50-51   - Fourteenth Sentence                                           
                                                                                     
      Column 52-68   - Contains Zeros                                                
                                                                                     
      Column 69-76   - To protect the confidentiality of the                         
                       respondents, these columns have                               
                       been replaced with blanks by the ICPSR.                       
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
  RECORD 2                                                                           
                                                                                     
      Column 1-4     - Identification Number                                         
                                                                                     
      Column 5-7     - Record Identification Number                                  
                                                                                     
                       "992" signifies the second record                             
                                                                                     
                       The remainder of this record contains information,            
                       viz., the number of arrests in previous years for any         
                       one of 28 offenses. Each offense is coded in two              
                       columns. A coding of "00" means that there were no            
                       arrests for that offense or that no information was           
                       available.                                                    
                                                                                     
      Column 8-9     - Public Intoxication                                           
                                                                                     
      column 10-11   - Petit Larceny                                                 
                                                                                     
      Column 12-13   - Misconduct (disorderly conduct, loitering, etc.)              
                                                                                     
      Column 14-15   - Assault                                                       
                                                                                     
      Column 16-17   - Arson                                                         
                                                                                     
      Column 18-19   - Rape                                                          
                                                                                     
      Column 20-21   - Forgery                                                       
                                                                                     
      Column 22-23   - Conspiracy                                                    
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 Page 12                                           ICPSR 9088                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
      Column 24-25   - Motor Vehicle Violations                                      
                                                                                     
      Column 26-27   - Narcotic Offenses                                             
                                                                                     
      Column 28-29   - Violation of Probation                                        
                                                                                     
      Column 30-31   - Violation of Parole                                           
                                                                                     
      Column 32-33   - Gambling                                                      
                                                                                     
      Column 34-35   - Grand Larceny                                                 
                                                                                     
      Column 36-37   - Robbery                                                       
                                                                                     
      Column 38-39   - Burglary                                                      
                                                                                     
      Column 40-41   - Sexual Offenses                                               
                                                                                     
      Column 42-43   - Criminal Possession of Dangerous Weapons                      
                                                                                     
      Column 44-45   - Criminal Possession of Forged Instrument                      
                                                                                     
      Column 46-47   - Obstruction of Government Administration                      
                                                                                     
      Column 48-49   - Resisting Arrest                                              
                                                                                     
      Column 50-51   - Escape                                                        
                                                                                     
      Column 52-53   - Criminal Possession of Stolen Property                        
                                                                                     
      Column 54-55   - Reckless Endangerment                                         
                                                                                     
      Column 56-57   - Criminally Negligent Homicide                                 
                                                                                     
      Column 58-59   - Youthful Offender                                             
                                                                                     
      Column 60-61   - Criminal Trespass                                             
                                                                                     
      Column 62-68   - Contains Zeros                                                
                                                                                     
      Column 69-76   - To protect the confidentiality of the                         
                       respondents, these columns have                               
                       been replaced with blanks by the ICPSR.                       
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
  RECORD 3 to Ki+2                                                                   
                                                                                     
        (Where Ki represent the number of psychiatric contacts that the              
        individual has had; if he has had no contacts then there is no record 3      
        -- only 2 records)                                                           
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 ICPSR 9088                                           Page 13                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
      Column  1-4    - Identification number                                         
                                                                                     
      Column  5-7    - Contact number - varies from 1 to Ki                          
                                                                                     
      Column  8-13   - Date of Contact                                               
                                                                                     
              8-9      year                                                          
                                                                                     
             10-11     month number                                                  
                                                                                     
             12-13     day number in month                                           
                                                                                     
      Column 14-15   - Facility    To protect the confidentiality of the respon-     
                                   dents, ICPSR has recoded this variable from       
             1 - Inpatient care    facility of treatment to whether the patient      
             2 - Outpatient care   received impatient or outpatient care.            
                                                                                     
      Column 16-18   - Census tract address at time of contact                       
                                                                                     
                       To protect the confidentiality of the respondents, ICPSR      
                       has recoded this variable from census tract address to        
                       city or county residence.                                     
                                                                                     
                       100 - City                                                    
                       200 - County                                                  
                       900 - Not known                                               
                       S00 - Not known                                               
                                                                                     
      Column 19-21   - Diagnosis at contact                                          
                                                                                     
                       (See Appendix for a list of diagnoses and codes)              
                                                                                     
      Column 22      - Type  of Service Given                                        
                                                                                     
                       22/0     Diagnosis and treatment                              
                                                                                     
                       22/1     Treatment primarily                                  
                                                                                     
                       22/2     Incomplete study                                     
                                                                                     
                       22/3     Diagnosis or consultation                            
                                                                                     
                       22/4     Inpatient consultation                               
                                                                                     
      Column 23-28   - Date of Termination of Treatment                              
                                                                                     
                       23,24 - year                                                  
                                                                                     
                       25,26 - month                                                 
                                                                                     
                       27,28 - day                                                   
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 Page 14                                           ICPSR 9088                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
      Column 29      - Reason for Termination                                        
                                                                                     
                       29/0 - Physician's decision                                   
                                                                                     
                       29/1 - Joint decision of physician and patient                
                                                                                     
                       29/2 - patient has died                                       
                                                                                     
                       29/3 - patient has left community                             
                                                                                     
                       29/4 - patient terminates because of illness,                 
                              financial stress or similar reasons                    
                                                                                     
                       29/5 - patient is transferred to other care in the            
                              community                                              
                                                                                     
                       29/6 - patient is transferred to other care outaide of        
                              community                                              
                                                                                     
                       29/7 - patient is transferred to non-psychiatric care         
                                                                                     
                       29-8 - patient doesn't wish to continue                       
                                                                                     
                       29/9 - reason is unknown                                      
                                                                                     
      Column 30-68   - Contains Zeros                                                
                                                                                     
      Column 69-76   - To protect the confidentiality of the                         
                       respondents, these columns have                               
                       been replaced with blanks by the ICPSR.                       
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 ICPSR 9088                                           Page 15                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
        CRIMINAL OFFENSES FOR WHICH INDIVIDUALS WERE SENTENCED                       
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
  01  -Public Intoxication                                                           
  02  -Criminal Possession of Dangerous Drug                                         
  03  -Narcotics Warrant                                                             
  04  -Fraudulently Obtaining Narcotics                                              
  11  -Petty Larceny                                                                 
  12  -Grand Larceny                                                                 
  13  -Criminal Possession of Stolen Property                                        
  14  -Criminal Possession of Forged Instrument                                      
  15  -Criminal Trespass                                                             
  16  -Burglary                                                                      
  17  -Falsifying Business Records                                                   
  18  -Forgery                                                                       
  19  -Issuing a Bad Check                                                           
                                                                                     
  21  -Assault                                                                       
  22  -Criminal Possession of a Dangerous Weapon                                     
  23  -Reckless Endangerment                                                         
  24  -Harassment                                                                    
  25  -Robbery                                                                       
  26  -Reckless Driving                                                              
                                                                                     
  31  -Motor Vehicle Violation                                                       
  32  -Driving While Intoxicated                                                     
  33  -Unlawful Use of a Motor Vehicle                                               
  34  -Speeding                                                                      
  35  -Transporting a Stolen Vehicle                                                 
  36  -Operating a Motor Vehicle Without a License                                   
                                                                                     
  41  -Gambling                                                                      
  42  -Loitering                                                                     
  43  -Violation of Social Services Law                                              
  44  -Soliciting Rides                                                              
                                                                                     
  51  -Resisting Arrest                                                              
  52  -Obstructing Government Administration                                         
  53  -Violation of Parole                                                           
  54  -Violation of Conditional Discharge                                            
  55  -Tampering with Physical Evidence                                              
  56  -Contempt of Court                                                             
                                                                                     
  61  -Youthful Offender                                                             
  62  -Criminal Mischief                                                             
                                                                                     
  71  -Arson                                                                         
                                                                                     
  81  -Disorderly Conduct                                                            
  82  -Endangering the Welfare of a Child                                            
  83  -Sexual Offenses                                                               
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 Page 16                                           ICPSR 9088                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
  84  -Conspiracy                                                                    
  85  -Prostitution                                                                  
  86  -Criminal Solicitation                                                         
 .bp                                                                                 
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                         CODES FOR DIAGNOSIS                                         
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
  100   Acute Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Intracranial Infection                      
  101   Acute Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Systemic Infections                         
  102   Acute Brain Syndrome Drug or Poison Intoxication                             
  103   Acute Brain Syndrome Alcohol Intoxication (Pathological Intoxication)        
  104   Acute Hallucinosis                                                           
  105   Delirium Tremens                                                             
  106   Acute Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Tratima                                     
  107   Acute Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Circulatory Disturbance                     
  108   Acute Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Convulsive Disorder                         
  109   Acute Brain Syndrome with metabolic Disturbance                              
  110   Acute Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Intracranial Neoplasm                       
  111   Acute Brain Syndrome with Disease of Unknown or Uncertain Cause              
  112   Acute Brain Syndrome of Unknown Cause                                        
                                                                                     
  200   Chronic Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Congenital Cranial Anomaly                
  201   Chronic Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Congenital Spastic Paraplegia             
  202   Chronic Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Mongolish                                 
  203   Chronic Brain Syndrome Due to Prenatal Maternal Infectious Disease           
  204   Chronic Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Central Nervous System Syphilis           
  205   Meningoencephalitic Chronic Brain Syndrome                                   
  206   Meningovascular Chronic Brain Syndrome                                       
  207   Other Central Nervous System Syphilis                                        
  208   Chronic Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Intracranial Infection other than         
           Syphilis (Mumps, Encephalitis)                                            
  209   Chronic Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Intoxication                              
  210   Chronic Brain Syndrome, Drug or Poison Intoxication                          
  211   Chronic Brain Syndrome, Alcohol Intoxication                                 
  212   Chronic Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Birth--Trauma                             
  213   Chronic Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Brain Trauma                              
  214   Chronic Brain Syndrome Brain Trauma, Gross Force (Fracture)                  
  215   Chronic Brain Syndrome Following Brain Operation                             
  216   Chronic Brain Syndrome Following Electrical Brain Trauma                     
  217   Chronic Brain Syndrome Following Irradiational Brain Trauma                  
  218   Chronic Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Cerebral Arteriosclerosis                 
  219   Chronic Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Circulatory Disturbance other than        
           Cerebral Arteriosclerosis                                                 
  220   Chornic Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Convulsive Disorder                       
  221   Chronic Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Senile Brain Disease                      
  222   Chronic Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Other Circulatory Disturbance or          
           Disturbance of Metabolism, Growth or Nutrition (Includes Presenile,       
           Alzheimers and Picks Disease, Fanilial Amaurosis, Adrenal Cortical        
           Diseases such as Cushings or Addisons, Myxedema, Hyperthyroid,            
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 ICPSR 9088                                           Page 17                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
           Pituitary, Simmonds Disease)                                              
  223   Chronic Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Intracranial Neoplasm (Tumor Growth)      
  224   Chronic Brain Syndrome Assoc. with Diseases of Unknown or Uncertain          
           Cause (Includes Multiple Sclerosis, Huntingtons Chorea, and Other         
          Diseases of a Familial or Hereditary Nature, Encephalitis Lethargical      
  225   Chronic Brain Syndrome of Unknown Cause                                      
  230   Organic Brain Syndrome (Not otherwise specified)                             
  231   Senile Dementia                                                              
  232   Pre-Senile Dementia                                                          
  233   Alcoholic Psychosis (Not otherwise specified)                                
  234   Delirium Tremens                                                             
  235   Korsakov's Psychosis                                                         
  236   Other Alcoholic Hallucinosis                                                 
  237   Alcohol Paranoid State                                                       
  238   Acute Alcohol Intoxication                                                   
  239   Alcoholic Deterioration                                                      
  240   Pathological Intoxication                                                    
  241   Other Alcoholic Psychosis                                                    
  242   Psychosis Associated with Intracranial Infection                             
  243   General Paralysis                                                            
  244   Syphilis of Central Nervous System                                           
  245   Epidemic Encephalitis                                                        
  246   Other Unspecified Encephalitis                                               
  247   Other Intracranial Infection                                                 
  248   Psychosis Associated with Other Cerebral Condition                           
  249   Cerebral Arteriosclerosis                                                    
  250   Other Cerebrovascular Disturbance                                            
  251   Epilepsy                                                                     
  252   Intracranial Neoplasm                                                        
  253   Degenerative Disease of the CNS                                              
  254   Brain Tr                                                                     
  255   Other Cerebral Condition                                                     
  256   Psychosis Associated With Other Physical Condition                           
  257   Endocrine Disorder (Cushings Disease)                                        
  258   Metabolic and Nutritional Disorder                                           
  259   Systemic Infection                                                           
  260   Drug or Poison Intoxication (Other than Alcoholic)                           
  261   Childbirth (Post Partum Psychosis or Deparession)                            
  262   Other and Unspecified Physical Condition                                     
  263   Non-Psychotic Organic Brain Syndrome                                         
  264   Intracranial Infection                                                       
  265   Alcohol (Simple Drunkenness)                                                 
  266   Other Drug, Poison or Systemic Intoxication                                  
  267   Brain Trauma                                                                 
  268   Circulatory Disturbance                                                      
  269   Epilepsy                                                                     
  270   Disturbance of Metabolism, Growth, or Nutrition                              
  271   Senile or Pre-Senile Brain Disease                                           
  272   Intracranial Neoplasm                                                        
  273   Degenerative Disease of the CNS                                              
  274   Other Physical Condition                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 Page 18                                           ICPSR 9088                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
  300   Mental Deficiency (Not Otherwise Specified)                                  
  301      Mild                                                                      
  302      Moderate                                                                  
  303      Severe                                                                    
  304   Mental Deficiencey, Idiopathic                                               
  305      Mild                                                                      
  306      Moderate                                                                  
  307      Severe                                                                    
  308      Profound                                                                  
  309   Mental Retardation - Borderline                                              
                                                                                     
  400   Involutional Psychotic Reaction                                              
  401   Affective Reactions                                                          
  402   Manic Depressive Reaction, Manic Type                                        
  403   Manic Depressive Reaction, Depressive Type                                   
  404   Manic Depressive Reaction, Other                                             
  405   Psychotic Depressive Reaction (Agitated,Melancholia)                         
  406   Schizophrenic Reactions (Mixed)                                              
  407   Schizophrenic Reaction, Simple Type                                          
  408   Schizophrenic Reaction, Hebephrenic                                          
  409   Schizophrenic Reaction, Catatonic Type                                       
  410   Schizophrenic Reaction, Paranoid Type                                        
  411   Schizophrenic Reaction, Acute Undifferentiated Type                          
  412   Schizophrenic Reaction, Chr. Undifferentiated Type, Psuedo Neurotic          
  413   Schizophrenic Reaction, Schizo-Affective Type                                
  414   Schizophrenic Reaction, Childhood Type                                       
  415   Schizophrenic Reaction, Residual Type                                        
  416   Paranoid Reactions                                                           
  417   Paranoia                                                                     
  418   Paranoid State                                                               
  419  Psychotic Reaction without Clearly Defined Structural Change, Other than      
           Above Unknown Etiology                                                    
  420   Postpartum Psychotic Reaction                                                
  421   Hysterical Psychosis                                                         
  430   Schizophrenia                                                                
  431   Schizophrenia, Simple                                                        
  432   Schizophrenia, Hebephrenic                                                   
  433   Schizophrenia, Catatonic                                                     
  434   Schizophrenia, Catatonic Type, Excited                                       
  435   Schizophrenia, Catatonic Type, Withdrawn                                     
  436   Schizophrenia, Paranoid (Chr. Par. Schiz. residual type)                     
  437   Schizophrenia, Acute Schizophrenic Episode                                   
  438   Schizophrenia, Latent (Borderline Schiz., Borderline State)                  
  439   Schizophrenia, Residual                                                      
  440   Schizophrenia, Schizo-Affective                                              
  441   Schizophrenia, Schizo-Affective Excited                                      
  442   Schizophrenia, Schizo-Affective, Depressed                                   
  443   Schizophrenia, Childhood                                                     
  444   Schizophrenia, Chronic Undifferentiated                                      
  445   Schizophrenia, Other                                                         
  446   Involutional Melancholia                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 ICPSR 9088                                           Page 19                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
  447   Manic-Depressive Illness, Manic                                              
  448   Manic-Depressive Illness, Depressed                                          
  449   Manic-Depressive Illness, Circular                                           
  450   Manic-Depressive Illness, Circular, Manic                                    
  451   Manic-Depressive, Circular, Depressed                                        
  452   Other Major Affective Disorder                                               
  453   Paranoia                                                                     
  454   Involutional Paranoid State                                                  
  455   Other Paranoid State                                                         
  456   Psychotic Depressive Reaction                                                
  457   Other Psychoses (Boderline, Hysterical, Unspecified, Other, Reactive)        
                                                                                     
  500   Psychophysiologic Skin Reaction                                              
  501   Psychophysiologic Musculoskeletal Reaction                                   
  502   Psychophysiologic Respiratory Reaction                                       
  503   Psychophysiologic Cardiovascular Reaction                                    
  504   Psychophysiologic Hemic and Lymphatic Reaction                               
  505   Psychophysiologic Gastrointestinal Reaction                                  
  506   Psychophysiologic Genito-Urinary Reaction                                    
  507   Psychophysiologic Nervous System Reaction                                    
  508   Psychophysiologic Reaction of Organs of Special Sense                        
  510   Psychophysiological Disorder - Obesity                                       
  511   Psychophysiological Disorder - Endocrine                                     
                                                                                     
  600   Psychoneurotic Reactions                                                     
  601   Anxiety Reaction                                                             
  602   Dissociative Reaction                                                        
  603   Conversion Reaction                                                          
  604   Phobic Reaction                                                              
  605   Obsessive Compulsive Reaction                                                
  606   Depressive Reaction (Reactive, Situational)                                  
  607   Psychoneurotic Reaction, Mixed                                               
  608   Psychoneurotic Reaction, Other                                               
  610   Neuroses (Not otherwise specified)                                           
  611   Neurosis, Anxiety                                                            
  612   Neurosis, Hysterical                                                         
  613   Neurosis, Hysterical Conversion Type                                         
  614   Neurosis, Hysterical, Dissociative Type                                      
  615   Neurosis, Phobic                                                             
  616   Neurosis, Obsessive Compulsive                                               
  617   Neurosis, Depressive                                                         
  618   Neurosis, Neurasthenic                                                       
  619   Neurosis, Depersonalization                                                  
  620   Neurosis, Hypochondriacal                                                    
  621   Neurosis, Other                                                              
  622   Neurosis, Mixed                                                              
                                                                                     
  700   Personality Pattern Disturbance                                              
  701   Inadequate Personality                                                       
  702   Schizoid Personality                                                         
  703   Cyclothymic Personality                                                      
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 Page 20                                           ICPSR 9088                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
  704   Paranoid Personality                                                         
  705   Personality Trait Disturbance                                                
  706   Emotionally Unstable Personality (Immature, Impulsive, or Impulsive          
        Ridden)                                                                      
  707   Passive-Aggressive Personality (Passive Aggressive, Aggressive)              
  708   Hysterical Personality (Masochistic) (Narcissistic)                          
  709   Compulsive Personality                                                       
  710   Oral or Dependent Personality, Passive or Passive Dependent                  
  711   Sociopathic Personality Disturbance (Psychopathic)                           
  712   Antisocial Reaction (Asocial) (Dyssocial)                                    
  713   Sexual Deviation (Sexual Perversion)                                         
  714   Addiction                                                                    
  715   Addiction Alcoholism                                                         
  716   Addiction Drug                                                               
  717   Special Symptom Reactions                                                    
  718   Learning Disturbance                                                         
  719   Speech Disturbance                                                           
  720   Enuresis                                                                     
  721   Somnahbulism                                                                 
  722   Other                                                                        
  723   Personality Trait Disturbance (Mixed) (Character Disorder, Mixed or          
           Neurotic Character)                                                       
  724   Personality Trait Disturbance - Other                                        
  730   Personality Disorder (Not otherwise specified)                               
  731   Personality Disorder, Paranoid                                               
  732   Personality Disorder, Cyclothymic                                            
  733   Personality Disorder, Schizoid                                               
  734   Personality Disorder, Explosive                                              
  735   Personality Disorder, Obsessive Compulsive                                   
  736   Personality Disorder, Hysterical                                             
  737   Personality Disorder, Asthenic                                               
  738   Personality Disorder, Antisocial                                             
  739   Personality Disorder, Passive-Aggressive                                     
  740   Personality Disorder, Inadequate                                             
  741   Personality Disorder, Other Specified Type                                   
  742   Sexual Deviation (Not otherwise specified)                                   
  743   Homosexuality - Relationship Between Members Same Sex                        
  744   Fetishism - Inanimate Object                                                 
  745   Pedophilia - Love of Children                                                
  746   Transvestitism - Dressing in Opposite Sex Clothes                            
  747   Exhibitionism - Exposing Themselves                                          
  748   Voyeurism - Peeping Toms                                                     
  749   Sadism - Inflecting Pain on Others                                           
  750   Masochism - Receiving Pain, Being Hurt                                       
  751   Other Sexual Deviation - Transsexualism                                      
  752   Alcoholism                                                                   
  753   Episodic Excessive Drinking                                                  
  754   Habitual Excessive Drinking                                                  
  755   Alcohol Addiction                                                            
  756   Other Alcoholism                                                             
  757   Drug Dependence                                                              
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 ICPSR 9088                                           Page 21                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
  758   Drug Dependence, Opium, Opium Alkaloids and Their Derivatives                
  759   Drug Dependence, Synthetic Analgesics with Morphine-Like Effects             
  760   Drug Dependence, Barbiturates                                                
  761   Drug Dependence, Other Hypnotics and Sedatives or Tranquilizers              
  762   Drug Dependence, Cocaine                                                     
  763   Drug Dependence, Cannabis Sative (Hashish, Marihuana)                        
  764   Drug Dependence, Other Psycho-Stimulants (Amphetamines) Speed                
  765   Drug Dependence, Hallucinogens (STP, LSD, Drug Flashback, Trip)              
  766   Drug Dependence, Other                                                       
  767   Speech Disturbance                                                           
  768   Specific Learning Disturbance                                                
  769   Tic                                                                          
  770   Other Psychomotor Disorder                                                   
  771   Disorders of Sleep                                                           
  772   Feeding Disturbance                                                          
  773   Enuresis (Bed wetting)                                                       
  774   Encopresis (Involuntary passing of feces)                                    
  775   Cephalalgia (Headache or head pain)                                          
  776   Other Special Symptom (Hair pulling)                                         
  777   Mixed Character Disorder                                                     
                                                                                     
  800   Transient Situational Disturbance (Not otherwise specified)                  
  801   Gross Stress Reaction                                                        
  802   Adult Situational Reaction                                                   
  803   Adjustment Reaction of Infancy (0-2yrs)                                      
  804   Adjustment Reaction of Childhood (Behavior Disturbance) (Up to 14 yrs,)      
  805   Habit Disturbance .                                                          
  806   Conduct Disturbance (Behavior)                                               
  807   Neurotic Traits                                                              
  808   Adjustment Reaction of Adolescence (14-20 yrs.)                              
  809   Adjustment Reaction of Late Life                                             
  810   Behavior Disorders of Childhood and Adolescence (3-20 yrs.)                  
  811   Hyperkinetic Reaction                                                        
  812   Withdrawing Reaction                                                         
  813   Overanxious Reaction                                                         
  814   Runaway Reaction                                                             
  815   Unsocialized Aggressive Reaction                                             
  816   Group Delinquent Reaction                                                    
  817   Other Reaction - Episodic Rage                                               
  818   Social Maladjustment Without Manifest Psychiatric Disorder                   
  819   Marital Maladjustment (Sexual, Situational, Conflict, Turmoil, Discord)      
  820   Social Maladjustment                                                         
  821   Occupational Maladjustment                                                   
  822   Dyssocial Behavior also Asocial Behavior                                     
  823   Other Social Maladjustment                                                   
  824   Non-Specific Conditions                                                      
                                                                                     
  901   Diagnosis Deferred (Undetermined)                                            
  902   Suicide Attempt (Acute - Suicide Gesture)                                    
  903   Anorexia Nervosa                                                             
  904   No Psychiatric Diagnosis (Without Mental Disorder)                           
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
1                                                                                    
 Page 22                                           ICPSR 9088                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
  905   With Psychosis (Paranoid Trends Inc.)                                        
  906   With Behavioral Reaction                                                     
  907   With Neurotic Reaction                                                       
  908   Malingering                                                                  
  909   Administrative Code                                                          
  910   Administrative Code                                                          
  911   Administrative Code                                                          
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
